Add docs and settings. (#1)
zytedata/zyte-spider-templates-project: README.rst

=============================

This is a starting template for a `Scrapy
<https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/>`_ project, with built-in integration with
Zyte technologies (`scrapy-zyte-api
<https://github.com/scrapy-plugins/scrapy-zyte-api>`_,
`zyte-spider-templates`_).

Requirements
============

* Python 3.8+
* Scrapy 2.11+
* zyte-spider-templates

You also need a `Zyte API`_ subscription for Zyte API features, including AI-powered spiders.

.. _Zyte API: https://docs.zyte.com/zyte-api/get-started.html

First steps
===========

After you clone this repository, follow these step to make it yours:

#.  Rename the ``zyte_spider_templates_project`` folder to a valid Python
    module name that you would like to use as your project ID, and update
    ``scrapy.cfg`` and ``<project ID>/settings.py`` (``SCRAPY_POET_DISCOVER``
    and ``SPIDER_MODULES`` settings) accordingly.

#.  For local development, assign your `Zyte API key
    <https://app.zyte.com/o/zyte-api/api-access>`_ to the ``ZYTE_API_KEY``
    environment variable, for example, using `direnv <https://direnv.net/>`_.

    .. note:: `Scrapy Cloud
        <https://docs.zyte.com/scrapy-cloud/get-started.html>`_

>         automatically configures your API key through a Scrapy setting.

Reviewer: It also does it through env variable.

```suggestion
        automatically provides Zyte API key for the jobs, if you have a subscription.
```

        git init
        git add -A
        git commit -m "Initial commit"

Usage
=====

This is an already created and configured Scrapy project so when you follow
guides like the `Scrapy Cloud tutorial
<https://docs.zyte.com/web-scraping/tutorial/cloud.html>`_ you should skip
most of the parts that talk about creating and configuring it. Still, you need
some additional configuration specific to your account. Here is a short guide
for using this project on Scrapy Cloud.

#.  Create a Scrapy Cloud project on the Zyte dashboard if you don't have it
    yet.
#.  Make sure you have a Zyte API subscription. For Scrapy Cloud runs the API
    key will be used automatically, for local runs you need to set a setting or
    an environment variable, as described in the first steps above.
#.  Run ``shub login`` and enter your `Scrapy Cloud API key
    <https://app.zyte.com/o/settings/apikey>`_.
#.  Deploy your project with ``shub deploy 000000``, replacing ``000000`` with
    your Scrapy Cloud project ID (found in the project dashboard URL).
    Alternatively, put the project ID into the ``scrapinghub.yml`` file to be
    able to run simply ``shub deploy``.

> #.  Now you should be able to create smart spiders on your Scrapy Cloud project

Author: This should link to some docs on this after we publish them.

* Python 3.8+
* Scrapy 2.11+
* zyte-spider-templates

> You also need a `Zyte API`_ subscription.

Author: I'm not sure if you can use this repo without Zyte API?

Reviewer 2: Technically yes, so we just need to be careful with the wording, e.g.

```suggestion
You also need a `Zyte API`_ subscription for Zyte API features, including AI-powered spiders.
```

.. _Zyte API: https://docs.zyte.com/zyte-api/get-started.html

Usage
=====

.. note:: As some modifications to the files in this repo are needed before it

>    can be used, it's recommended to fork it.

Author: Should this explain what forking is?

   yet.
2. Make sure you have a Zyte API subscription. For Scrapy Cloud runs the API
   key will be used automatically, for local runs you need to set a setting or
   an environment variable, as described in `scrapy-zyte-api docs
   <https://github.com/scrapy-plugins/scrapy-zyte-api#quick-start>`_.
3. Run ``shub login`` and enter your `Scrapy Cloud API key
   <https://app.zyte.com/o/settings/apikey>`_.
4. Deploy your project with ``shub deploy 000000``, replacing ``000000`` with
   your Scrapy Cloud project ID (found in the project dashboard URL).
   Alternatively, put the project ID into the ``scrapinghub.yml`` file to be
   able to run simply ``shub deploy``.
5. Now you should be able to create smart spiders on your Scrapy Cloud project
   using the templates from this project.

For more information and more verbose descriptions of specific steps you can
check:

* `The Scrapy Cloud tutorial
  <https://docs.zyte.com/web-scraping/tutorial/cloud.html>`_.
* `The shub documentation <https://shub.readthedocs.io/>`_.
* `The Zyte API documentation
  <https://docs.zyte.com/zyte-api/get-started.html>`_.
* `The zyte-spider-templates documentation

>   <https://github.com/zytedata/zyte-spider-templates>`_.

Author: Any other links here?

Reviewer: I think we should also link to Scrapy docs.
